# ICOBA
ICOBA serves as a template for multi-image analysis of any kind, and we encourage the use of our code for user-specific manipulation to better the field of image analysis and allow for consistent, time-friendly, and objective ImageJ use.
Offered as a completely open-source and free ImageJ macro script, ICOBA is the perfect tool for those to learn and implement ImageJ analysis and image co-localization into their workflow. The only request of the authors is to please cite ICOBA in their completed works in which it has been utilized.
# Implementation
To customize ICOBA to your specific application and antibody signal, utilizing ImageJ's built-in Record feature is essential. The record function lets you see precisely what Java code is running in the background. This functionality makes it easy to directly copy and paste image modifications and specific measurements for the set of experimental images. Once the recorder captures the accurate desired output, run the automated macro on a small set of single images to ensure consistent output and parameter analysis. Utilization of the Record feature should be used for each channel you are subjecting to the co-localization overlay to determine the threshold parameters for the channel's signal. Figure 3 serves as an example of the output goal of ICOBA. Each channel is converted to 8-bit and subsequently subjected to a channel-specific threshold to identify each channel's region of interest (ROI). Using the workflow for each channel, as defined above, ICOBA is implemented to overlay the channel ROI.
ICOBA utilizes an iterative for-loop through the folders holding the two image channels of your interest. The input command for each folder path is located at the top of the ICOBA script, "input_roi" and "input_analyze". Input_roi will be the channel that creates a region of interest on the second channel, designated as input_analyze. While the for-loop does not require modification, updating the action script to match your validated code from Figure 1 is essential. Once ICOBA is updated with the application-specific code and correct channel paths, the "Run Macro" function can be selected or called by keyboard shortcut (Ctrl + R).
After selecting "Run Macro," ICOBA will iteratively subject each image to the two-channel ROI overlay and analysis. Once completed, the final image from the batch will appear on the screen, and a window containing the Summary statistics from each image will appear. Select all by clicking Edit, then Select-All or using the keyboard shortcut (Ctrl + A). Copy the data to the computer's clipboard and paste it into the data processing software of your choice. From this point, grouped experimental summary data and statistical analysis can be conducted at the investigator's discretion.
